README.md, before:

# Number of user on a Minecraft server Indicator with Pimoroni's Blinkt

This use [markfickett/minecraftstatus](https://github.com/markfickett/minecraftstatus) library to check the the status of a Minecraft server, including list of online players. A prestine copy of mcstatus.py is included here.


This is a merge from two independants project found on github:
- [bennuttall/people-in-space-indicator-blinkt](https://github.com/bennuttall/people-in-space-indicator-blinkt) People in Space Indicator with Pimoroni's Blinkt

## Hardware

- Raspberry Pi (any version with 40 pins to accomodate the Blinkt!
- [Pimoroni Blinkt!](https://shop.pimoroni.com/products/blinkt)
- USB cable and power
- MicroSD card
- network connectivity to a minecraft server
- (Optional) FADO lamp from IKEA

## Software

- [Pimoroni Blinkt Python library](https://github.com/pimoroni/blinkt) this need to be downloaded and installed separately
- [markfickett/minecraftstatus](https://github.com/markfickett/minecraftstatus) this is included in this repository

## Variant

### mc_blinkt_count.py

This indicate a blue count of user connected to the Minecraft server (from 1 to 8) and blink red when in error. It use the Men in Space logic

### mc_blinkt_fado.py

This is an ambiant display where all LEDs from the Blinkt! show the same color. You are supposed to put the PiZero and Blinkt! into a FADO lamp from IKEA.

Here is the display logic:
- Constant Green mean server OK but no-one connected
- Blinking Blue mean server OK and number of blink is the number of user connected
- Blinking constantly Red mean problem to connect to the server

### main.py

This is a copy of the core part of mcstatus.py.
It can be used to build other version that use Blinkt! or else.

## Usage

Run `mc_blinkt_count.py server_name_or_ip` on a Pi with connectivity to the minecraft server 

Run `mc_blinkt_fado.py server_name_or_ip` on a Pi with connectivity to the minecraft server 

## Features

In a loop, it connect to a Minecraft server, query the number of connected user and it lights up an LED per user connected, in sequence.

If the Minecraft server is unavailable, the end LED blinks red.

## Notes

Very special setup (totally out of the scope of this project) for this Raspberry PiZero.
The PiZero get both network and power from the host (MAC mini) from a single USB cable. The setup was made based on this: [Setting up Pi Zero OTG - The quick way (No USB keyboard, mouse, HDMI monitor needed)](http://blog.gbaman.info/?p=791)
Additionnaly, the MAC mini is sharing it's internet connectivity for update and communication with remote Minecraft server.

## Learning resource

This project is based on a Raspberry Pi learning resource wrote by Ben Nuttall that just uses simple LEDs using [GPIO Zero](http://gpiozero.readthedocs.io/). See [People in Space Indicator](https://www.raspberrypi.org/learning/people-in-space-indicator/).

Commit message:

Add documentation for the mc_blinkt_fade version.

README.md, after:

# Number of user on a Minecraft server Indicator with Pimoroni's Blinkt

This use [markfickett/minecraftstatus](https://github.com/markfickett/minecraftstatus) library to check the the status of a Minecraft server, including list of online players. A prestine copy of mcstatus.py is included here.


This is a merge from two independants project found on github:
- [bennuttall/people-in-space-indicator-blinkt](https://github.com/bennuttall/people-in-space-indicator-blinkt) People in Space Indicator with Pimoroni's Blinkt

## Hardware

- Raspberry Pi (any version with 40 pins to accomodate the Blinkt!
- [Pimoroni Blinkt!](https://shop.pimoroni.com/products/blinkt)
- USB cable and power
- MicroSD card
- network connectivity to a minecraft server
- (Optional) FADO lamp from IKEA

## Software

- [Pimoroni Blinkt Python library](https://github.com/pimoroni/blinkt) this need to be downloaded and installed separately
- [markfickett/minecraftstatus](https://github.com/markfickett/minecraftstatus) this is included in this repository

## Variant

### mc_blinkt_count.py

This indicate a blue count of user connected to the Minecraft server (from 1 to 8) and blink red when in error. It use the Men in Space logic

### mc_blinkt_fado.py

This is an ambiant display where all LEDs from the Blinkt! show the same color. You are supposed to put the PiZero and Blinkt! into a FADO lamp from IKEA.

Here is the display logic:
- Constant Green mean server OK but no-one connected
- Blinking Blue mean server OK and number of blink is the number of user connected
- Blinking constantly Red mean problem to connect to the server

### mc_blinkt_fade.py

Even better than mc_blinkt_fade.py, this version use fade-in fade-out rather than blinking. It make it even more ambiant indicator and you will notice if the program stop for some reason. Still minded for inclusion into a FADO lamp from IKEA.

Here is the display logic:
- Slow Fade in and out of Green mean server OK but no-one connected
- Each fast Fade in and out of Blue between Green indicate the number of user connected
- Slow Fade in and out of Red mean problem to connect to the server

### main.py

This is a copy of the core part of mcstatus.py.
It can be used to build other version that use Blinkt! or else.

## Usage

Run `mc_blinkt_count.py server_name_or_ip` on a Pi with connectivity to the minecraft server 

Run `mc_blinkt_fado.py server_name_or_ip` on a Pi with connectivity to the minecraft server 

Run `mc_blinkt_fade.py server_name_or_ip` on a Pi with connectivity to the minecraft server 

## Features

In a loop, it connect to a Minecraft server, query the number of connected user and it lights up an LED per user connected, in sequence.

If the Minecraft server is unavailable, the end LED blinks red.

## Notes

Very special setup (totally out of the scope of this project) for this Raspberry PiZero.
The PiZero get both network and power from the host (MAC mini) from a single USB cable. The setup was made based on this: [Setting up Pi Zero OTG - The quick way (No USB keyboard, mouse, HDMI monitor needed)](http://blog.gbaman.info/?p=791)
Additionnaly, the MAC mini is sharing it's internet connectivity for update and communication with remote Minecraft server.

## Learning resource

This project is based on a Raspberry Pi learning resource wrote by Ben Nuttall that just uses simple LEDs using [GPIO Zero](http://gpiozero.readthedocs.io/). See [People in Space Indicator](https://www.raspberrypi.org/learning/people-in-space-indicator/).
